Yang Yu
Email: yiy@bupt.edu.cn/yuyang1224002383@gmail.com | Tel: (86) 18180541219 | GitHub: github.com/YI1219

EDUCATIONAL BACKGROUND

Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications (211, Recommended)
09/2022-06/2025
Major: Computer Technology (Master’s Degree)
GPA: 3.85/4.0 (according to the Peking University algorithm)
Hainan University(211)
09/2018-06/2022
Major: Software Engineering (Bachelor’s Degree)
GPA: 3.8/4.0

SOFTWARE COPYRIGHT

Quangou Hainan v1.0 (Register No.: 2023SR0154035)
Utility Model Patent for 'An Intelligent Huarong Dao Storage Cabinet' (Register No.: 201922199084.7)
A method and device for cross ‑	modal hash retrieval based on multiple comparisons and dual ‑	oppositional confrontation (Register No.: 202310700719.5)

ACADEMIC PROJECTS

Project Member in Cross-media Education Big Data Personalised Recommendation and Search System based on Deep Learning, a project supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China
Project Member in Cross-modal Big Data Semantic Recognition and Search based on MindSpore, a project supported by the Chinese Association for Artificial Intelligence - Huawei MindSpore Academic Award Fund
Project Leader of Unified Semantic Representation Learning and Intelligent Search of Cross-Media Data Enhanced by Multi-modal Semantic Fusion, a project of the Graduate Innovation and Entrepreneurship Programme, Type A
Project Member in A Federated Learning Method for Quality and Efficiency Optimization of Distributed Associative Big Data, a project supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China
RESEARCH PAPERS

Yang Yu, Meiyu Liang, Mengran Yin, Kangkang Lu, Junping Du, Zhe Xue. Unsupervised Multimodal Graph Contrastive Semantic Anchor Space Dynamic Knowledge Distillation Network for Cross-media Hash Retrieval. Proceedings of the International Conference on Data Engineering (ICDE). 2024.
Developed a novel unsupervised multimodal graph contrastive semantic anchor space dynamic knowledge distillation network for cross-media hash retrieval (GASKN), which can tackle the challenges that current Knowledge Distillation (KD) methods face in preserving the multimodal semantic information.
Constructed a large multimodal fusion teacher model to obtain a multimodal semantic anchor space; utilised the ALBERT and the BiFormer as the compact student model’s backbones to ensure efficient retrieval capabilities for the student mode and proposed a graph attention contrastive learning mechanism which enables structural semantic space learning to further distil the structural knowledge of the semantic anchor space.
Proved the superiority of GASKN, compared to existing state-of-the-art hashing algorithms, through evaluation using three widely-used datasets.
Yang Yu, Meiyu Liang, Wei Huang, Juncheng zheng, Kangkang Lu, Junping Du. Asymmetric Pre-aligned Anchor Contrastive Enhanced Diffusion Hashing Model for Incomplete Multimodal Retrieval. To appear in Proceedings of the ACM International Conference on Multimedia (ACM MM). 2025.
Proposed a novel multi-modal diffusion hashing model, the Asymmetric Pre-aligned Anchor Contrastive Enhanced Diffusion Hashing Model (AADH) for Incomplete Multi-modal Hashing Retrieval, which to our knowledge is the first framework specifically tailored to address incomplete multi-modal retrieval.
Proposed an Asymmetric Pre-alignment strategy to address the challenge of aligning semantic information between the image and text modalities, particularly the multifaceted nature of image descriptions.
Proposed a novel Anchor Contrastive Enhanced Diffusion Hash mechanism to address the issue of modality alignment in image-text modalities.
Demonstrated a simple yet effective technique for adjusting the noise in the model, which significantly enhances the argumentation of image-text data and, consequently, the model's robustness.
Juncheng Zheng, Meiyu Liang, Yang Yu, Yawen Li, Zhe Xue. Knowledge Graph Enhanced Multimodal Transformer for Image-Text Retrieval. Proceedings of the International Conference on Data Engineering (ICDE). 2024.
Proposed a multimodal knowledge-enhanced multimodal transformer to combine coarse-grained and fine-grained representation learning into a unified framework, which can achieve efficient image-text retrieval tasks.
Came up with a bidirectional fine-grained matching method to filter the salient regions and words of images and texts, remove the interfering noise information and realize bidirectional fine-grained pairing, which improves the fine-grained retrieval performance.
Showcased the advantage of the proposed method compared to existing state-of-the-art algorithms by evaluating the method using two widely-used datasets.
Juncheng Zheng, Meiyu Liang, Yang Yu, Junping Du and Zhe Xue. Multimodall Knowledge Graph-guided Cross-Modal Graph Network for Image-text Retrieval. Proceedings of the International Conference on Big Data and Smart Computing (BigComp). 2024.
Constructed a novel multimodal knowledge graphguided cross-modal graph network for fine-grained and coarse-grained image-text alignment
Proposed a multimodal knowledge graph-guided finegrained cross-modal relational reasoning method, which uses multi- head attention mechanism to obtain interest embeddings of visual regions and text words respectively.
Enhanced the global multimodal representation by mining the hidden fine-grained information that may be contained in images and sentences.
Mengran Yin, Meiyu Liang, Yang Yu, Xiaowen Cao, Junping Du, Zhe Xue. Query Aware Cross-modal Dual Contrastive Learning Network for Multi-modal Video Moment Retrieval. Journal of Software. 2024,35(5):0
Built a query-aware cross-modal contrastive learning network for multi-modal video moment retrieval (QACLN), which can achieve the unified representation of different modal data by combining cross-modal and intra-modal contrastive learning.
Developed a query-aware cross-modal semantic fusion strategy; proposed a cross-modal and intra-modal dual contrastive learning mechanism for video and text query to enhance the semantic alignment and fusion of different modalities; employed the 1D convolution boundary regression and cross-modal semantic similarity calculation to perform the moment localisation and video retrieval.
Indicated that the proposed QACLN outperforms the state-of-the-art methods through extensive experiments on the benchmark dataset.
Meiyu Liang, Junping Du, Xiaowen Cao, Yang Yu, Kangkang Lu, Zhe Xue, Min Zhang. Semantic Structure Enhanced Contrastive Adversarial Hash Network for Cross-media Representation Learning. Proceedings of the 30th ACM International Conference on Multimedia. 2022.
Developed a novel semantic structure enhanced contrastive adversarial hash network for cross-media representation learning (SCAHN).
Built a fine-grained cross-media attention feature learning network to capture more fine-grained cross-media semantic associations; constructed a semantic label association graph and utilised the graph convolutional network to mine the implicit semantic structures; proposed a cross-media and intra-media contrastive adversarial representation learning mechanism to further enhance the semantic discriminativeness of different modal representations and developed a dual- way adversarial learning strategy to maximise cross-media semantic associations.
Demonstrated the superiority of the proposed SCAHN, compared to existing state-of-the-art methods, through extensive experiments on several cross-media benchmark datasets.
Meiyu Liang, Yawen Li, Yang Yu, Xiaowen Cao, Zhe Xue, Ang Li. Structures Aware Fine-Grained Contrastive Adversarial Hashing for Cross-Media Retrieval. IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering (2024).
Established a cross-media contrastive adversarial hash network for cross-media hashing, which is the first work for deep cross-media contrastive adversarial hashing.
Proposed a cross-media and intra-media contrastive adversarial hashing mechanism to enhance the semantic representations discriminativeness of different modalities.
Developed a dual-way adversarial learning strategy to maximize the semantic association between different modalities, so as to obtain cross-media unified hash representations with stronger discriminativeness and semantic consistency preserving power.
Proposed a fine-grained cross-media semantic feature learning method based on fine-grained semantic reasoning with transformers, which captures fine-grained salient features of different modalities for semantic association learning, and enhances the reasoning ability of fine-grained implicit semantic association.
Proposed a semantic label graph convolutional network guided cross-media semantic association learning strategy by awaring semantic structure information to enhance the learning ability of implicit cross-media semantic association.
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE

ByteDance (E-commerce on TikTok)                                                                                                                    10/2023-present
Natural Language Algorithm Engineer in the Backbone Construction Group for E-commerce Platform Governance
Assisting with the research and development of the backbone;
Taking charge of e-commerce platform content governance, model review and automatic rejection mechanism
Enhance the performance of downstream tasks such as text classification and text similarity tasks by employing pretraining techniques to construct a universal embedding model for e-commerce scenarios.
Developed a novel pre-training approach combining LLM mask autoencoder and LLM next token prediction to enhance embedding and generation capabilities, leading to improved end‑to‑end RAG retrieval and a 7% increase in precision for downstream QA tasks.
AI Research Institute, New Oriental Education & Technology Group                                                            04/2023- 07/2023
Natural Language Algorithm Engineer in the Speech Language Group of Natural Language Processing Department
Chiefly engaged in grammar error correction and intelligent question answering;
Collaborated to optimise a grammar error correction model and develop an intelligent question-answering model

EXTRACURRICULAR ENGAGEMENTS

Volunteers Association, Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications
Devised and engaged in diversified activities and programmes on behalf of public interests to help those in need;
Fostered empathy and cultivated a strong sense of social and communal responsibility
Volunteers Group, College of Information Science & Technology, Hainan University
Provided volunteer service in various school events, such as Wearing Hanfu and Performing Ancient Rites, Empty Nest Cleaning and Sports Meetings among others;
Improved organisational and co-ordinational capabilities and interpersonal communication skills

HONOURS	
National Postgraduate Scholarship	11/2024
First Prize of Scholarship for Postgraduate Students, Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications	11/2024
Shenzhen Stock Exchange Enterprise Scholarship	11/2023
First Prize of Scholarship for Postgraduate Students, Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications	11/2023
First Prize of Scholarship for Postgraduate Students, Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications	11/2022
Outstanding Graduate of Hainan University	09/2022
First Prize in the Provincial Contest in Hainan in the 2020 China Collegiate Computing Contest - Group Programming Ladder
Tournament	01/2021
Merit Student in the Academic Year 2019-2020, Hainan University	11/2020
First-class Comprehensive Scholarship in the Academic Year 2019-2020, Hainan University	11/2020
Second Prize in Hainan Competition Area, National 3D Innovative Design Competition	10/2020
Third Prize in South China in the 2020 China Collegiate Computing Contest - WeChat Mini Programme Application	
Development Competition
Third Prize in the Intelligent Manufacturing Innovation and Creativity Contest in the 5th National Applied Talents	2020
Comprehensive Skills Competition, Hainan University	12/2019
Special Comprehensive Scholarship in the Academic Year 2018-2019, Hainan University	11/2019
SKILLS & INTERESTS	
Language Skills: Mandarin (native), English (IELTS 6.5)	
Interests: Piano, street dance, basketball, badminton and table tennis	
